## 计算广告史



#### 广告历史背景&计算广告在广告史中的位置





#### 计算广告定义&分类

#### 计算广告国外公司发展 

##### 谷歌

	* **October 23, 2000**: Google AdWords launches with 350 advertisers. This was actually Google's second advertising program, after premium sponsorship was launched in August 2020
	* **February 2002**: AdWords adopts a cost-per-click auction model, where advertisers bid on how much they will pay per ad click
	* **May 2003**: Google AdSense launches, enabling users to display targeted AdWords ads on their own website
	* **June 2005**: Site Targeting is introduced, allowing advertisers to choose specific sites to appear on, rather than just targeting specific keywords 
	* **August 2005**: the platform updates minimum bids to include Quality Score
	* **November 2005**: Google Analytics launches, allowing advertisers to thoroughly track. all of their online campaigns
	* **January 2006**: Google AdWords launches a closed beta version of AdWords Editor - a downloadable account management application that allows users to quickly and easily make changes to their account
	* **March 2006**: Google AdWords offers demographic site selection for advertisers targeting users in the United States
	* **March 2006**: Google AdWords begins to offer local business ads that enable advertisers to promote their business location on the Google local map, complete with phone number and/or image
	* **April 2007**: Google acquires DoubleClick that provides advertisers an easy and efficient way to manage both search and display ads in one place while offering superior tools for targeting, serving and analyzing online ads
	* **Januray 2008**: Demographic bidding beta test on the content network, allowing advertisers to amend bids or even stop ads showing for demographic profiles on certain websites
	* **March 2009**: Interest-based advertising is announced on the Google content network, which allows advertisers to target users based on their interests
	* **November 2009**: Ad Sitelinks are born, which allow advertisers to provide additional links to content deep within their sites. these links can display up to four additional Destination URLs on search-based text ads 
	* **March 2010**: AdWords remarketing rolls out to reach users based on their past interactions with your website
	* **Januray 2011**: AdWords now allows negative keywords to be kept in lists and applied across multiple campaigns
	* **March 2011**: New targeting options are released based on a user's physical location or their location of interest
	* **October 2011**: Dynamic Search Ads are released that combines the power of Google's web-crawling technology and knowledge of a website's inventory to automatically generate an ad and destination URL based on the query and the content on the web page
	* **February 2013**: Enhanced Campaigns introduced, helping advertisers reach people with the right ads (based on location, time of day, device type, etc.) and across all devices without having to set up and manage multiple campaigns
	* **September 2015**: Customer Audience is announced that requires user-uploaded data to target prospects
	* **Februray 2016**: AdWords removes ads from right sidebar in search results pages (with the exception of PLAs), moving closer to a 'mobile-first' approach. Now four ads will appear above the natural results, and three below
	* **May 2016**: AdWords changes the color of the ad indicator from yellow to green, making ads and organic results look nearly identical
	* **May 2016**: Text Ad limits increase fro the first time in history., which will now contain two headlines (30 characters each), one description line(80 characters), and an automatically generated domain in the display URL
	* **December 2016**: AdWords allows marketers to apply audience lists at the campaign level, making it easier for marketers to manage audience lists at scale and change bid adjustments
	* **April 2017**: Smart Display Campaigns are introduced, enabling advertisers to reach more customers on Google Display Network easier
	* **May 2017**: "Similar Audiences" for Search and Shopping and "Customer Match" for Shopping are now available
	* **August 2017**: AdWords begin rolling out the "Landing pages" page to help advertisers see how their landing pages are performing - which URLs are mobile-friendly, generating the most sales, and which ones may require attention
	* **June 2018**: Google AdWords change its name to Google Ads

[目前google广告支持的投放定向能力](https://support.google.com/google-ads/answer/2404191)

##### facebook

**2004:** Facebook launches as TheFacebook.com in February 2004. Student Mark Zuckerberg remarks to the [Harvard Crimson school newspaper](http://www.thecrimson.com/article/2004/3/1/facebook-expands-beyond-harvard-harvard-students/) that it might be nice to get some advertising to offset the costs of the servers

**2004:** Facebook launches its first ad revenue project, called Flyers, which were ads placed on Facebook's homepage. This offered local businesses the opportunity to send ads to a particular college campus. This evolves into an auction model called Flyers Pro.

**2005:** Facebook starts to offer sponsorship deals to big brands for its Groups section. Apple gets involved, sponsoring a group on Facebook, and agrees to pay Facebook $1 per member per month. The group's membership explodes in popularity, earning Facebook over $100,000 in its first few months.

**2006:** Microsoft signs a three-year agreement with Facebook to be the exclusive provider and seller of sponsored links and banner ads. In August, Facebook launches its video advertising platform.

**2007:** Facebook launches its Facebook Ads platform, part of which includes [Beacon](https://www.pcworld.com/article/140182/article.html) and Facebook Marketplace. Beacon was found to track online actions by Facebook users on more than 40 sites, even after they left the network. Facebook Marketplace is still with us today.

**2008:** Facebook launches "Pages," hoping to actively court page owners to do paid advertising down the line. In addition, the network optimizes its service for mobile phones.

**2009:** Facebook introduces various language ad options and geographical targeted ads options.

**2010:** Facebook offers its site as a mobile app. By 2017, Facebook has over 1.8 billion active mobile users.

**2011:** Facebook offers advertisers a desktop ad program called Sponsored Stories. Advertisers' content appears in users' feeds and looks like posts from friends. Unfortunately, users felt misled by the program. Just three years later, the company drops it from its advertising options, after [users cite privacy concerns](https://www.forbes.com/sites/drewhendricks/2014/01/16/facebook-to-drop-sponsored-stories-what-does-this-mean-for-advertisers/#e92e492a81f2).

**2012:** Facebook offers advertisers the Social Graph, which brings together data from connections, likes, and follows by users. The data are used by Facebook with advertisers. Also introduced is Facebook Exchange, a real-time bidding vehicle for advertising.

**2013:** Facebook buys Atlas Solutions from Microsoft for $100 million to escalate its ad-serving capabilities. Retargeted ads start showing up in users' feeds, displaying products and services users searched for outside of the Facebook universe.

**2014:** Facebook's ad revenue expected to reach $7.7 billion for the year.

**2015:** Mid-year results show [Facebook's mobile ad revenue in 2015's second quarter](http://fortune.com/2015/07/29/facebook-mobile-ad-revenue/) reach nearly $3 billion, 75 percent of its total ad revenue.

**2016:** Facebook's [international ad revenue in 2016](https://marketingland.com/2016-facebook-advertising-preview-4-trends-act-150552) grows at massively high rates as the rest of the world catches up with Facebook's growth in America.

**2017:** Facebook unknowingly runs fake ads during the 2016 U.S. presidential election. To help stop any future false ads, Facebook says it will [show users](https://newsroom.fb.com/news/2017/10/update-on-our-advertising-transparency-and-authenticity-efforts/) which posts on pages are ads.

**2018:** Facebook continues to expand ad formats, offering 11 different types of [advertising options](https://www.facebook.com/business/ads-guide).

##### youtube

#### 计算广告国内公司发展

##### 百度

##### 腾讯

##### 阿里

##### 长视频类公司：爱奇艺，腾讯视频，b站

##### 短视频类公司: 抖音，快手

#### 计算广告发展趋势

##### 带货





#### Reference

1. [facebook ads history](https://www.adtaxi.com/blog-roll/2018/03/08/ad-evolution-history-facebook)